solution for HPS (#811)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/USACO jan17-hoof-paper-scissors-gold.mdx

For every move, either Bessie can switch to either `H, P, S` or stay on her current gesture. If she changes her gesture, then the next game $i+1$ will have used $j+1$ gestures, which corresponds to the `dp` state `dp[i+1][j+1][k]`. We can simulate this for all 3 gestures. Then, all we have to do is keep track of whether or not Bessie won at game $i$ with a gesture of $k$. 

Note that you can just compare the current gesture to `H,P,S` because there is always exactly one way to win. 

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(NK)$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## Implementation

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

using ll = long long;
using vi = vector<int>;
using pi = pair<int,int>;

#define sz(x) (int)(x).size()
#define pb push_back
#define all(x) begin(x), end(x)
#define f first
#define s second

const int MX = 1e5+5;

int dp[MX][25][3]; // dp[i][j][k] is the most amount of games she wins at games i with switches j with current item k
int A[MX]; // 0 == H 1 == P 2 == S

int main() { 
    cin.tie(0)->sync_with_stdio(0); 
    freopen("hps.in", "r", stdin); 

>     freopen("hps.out", "w", stdout);

Reviewer: @nwatx i meant spaces are bad

>     freopen("hps.out", "w", stdout);

Reviewer: should use tabs instead

>     freopen("hps.out", "w", stdout);

Author: LOL my bad

>     freopen("hps.out", "w", stdout);

Author: fixed :D

	int N, K;

	cin >> N >> K;

	for(int i = 0; i < N; i++) { 
		char a; cin >> a;
		if(a == 'H') A[i] = 0;
		if(a == 'P') A[i] = 1;
		if(a == 'S') A[i] = 2;
	}

	// either she switches to h or p or s or stays

> 	for(int i = 0; i <= N; i++) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	for(int i = 0; i < N; i++) {
```
0-indexing ?

		for(int j = 0; j <= K; j++) {
			for(int k = 0; k < 3; k++) {
				if(k == A[i]) dp[i][j][k]++;
				dp[i+1][j+1][0] = max(dp[i+1][j+1][0], dp[i][j][k]); // switch to not item
				dp[i+1][j+1][1] = max(dp[i+1][j+1][1], dp[i][j][k]); // switch to not item

> 				dp[i+1][j+1][2] = max(dp[i+1][j+1][2], dp[i][j][k]); // switch to not item

Reviewer: technically, one of these is a "stay"

Author: well ig it is a "switch" if you consider that j is being incremented although that's just a simplicity thing since it'll get overwritten nevertheless

---
id: usaco-694
source: USACO Gold 2017 January
title: Hoof, Paper, Scissors
author: Neo Wang (C++)
---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_hps_gold_jan17.html)

## Solution

> The main observation for this problem is to realize that we only need to keep track of the number of games played $i$, the number of times switched so far $j$, and the current gesture $k$ in order to determine the most amount of previous games won for any game $i$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main observation for this problem is that we only need to keep track of the number of games played $i$, the number of times switched so far $j$, and the current gesture $k$ in order to determine the largest number of previous games won for any game $i$.
```

> For every move, either Bessie can switch to either `H, P, S` or stay on her current gesture. If she changes her gesture, then the next game $i+1$ will have used $j+1$ gestures, which corresponds to the $\texttt{dp}$ state $\texttt{dp}[i+1][j+1][k]$. We can simulate this for all 3 gestures. Then, we just increment $\texttt{dp}[i][j][k]$ if Bessie wins at game $i$ with gesture $k$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For every move, either Bessie can either switch or stay on her current gesture. If she changes her gesture, then the next game $i+1$ will have used $j+1$ gestures, which corresponds to the $\texttt{dp}$ state $\texttt{dp}[i+1][j+1][k]$. We can simulate this for all 3 gestures. Then, we just increment $\texttt{dp}[i][j][k]$ if Bessie wins at game $i$ with gesture $k$.
```

Note that you can just compare the current gesture to `H, P, S` because there is always exactly one way to win. 

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(NK)$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## Implementation

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

using ll = long long;
using vi = vector<int>;
using pi = pair<int,int>;

#define sz(x) (int)(x).size()
#define pb push_back
#define all(x) begin(x), end(x)
#define f first
#define s second

void setIO(string name = "") {
	cin.tie(0)->sync_with_stdio(0); // see /general/fast-io
	if (sz(name)) {
		freopen((name+".in").c_str(), "r", stdin); // see /general/io
		freopen((name+".out").c_str(), "w", stdout);
	}
}

const int MX = 1e5+5;

> int dp[MX][25][3]; // dp[i][j][k] is the most amount of games she wins at games i with switches j with current item k

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
int dp[MX][25][3]; // dp[i][j][k] is the largest number of games she wins at games i with switches j with current item k
```
